Charles Goldsmith.
The question is what are the gains and losses when a small private library goes out of existence?
We're talking specifically about the Francis Bacon Foundation Library in Claremont.
California's DLR perhaps altogether from, let's say, the 1920s and 30s up until about four or five years ago.
It was a private library owned by
Francis Bacon, excuse me, owned by Walter Conrad Ahrensberg.
And who was he, by the way?
He was a rich man, who believed that Shakespeare, I will regret, right.
He believed that Bacon wrote Shakespeare.
He was very interested in numerology.
He was interested in the numerology of Dante and Shakespeare.
He was a radical student of them, read them very, very carefully, but he had some very distinct opinions.
Was he an amateur?
He was an amateur indeed.
I mean, he was a businessman by occupation.
He was an amateur in this field.
He amassed a very, very fine library.
He had a private librarian administer the library.
As it became bigger and bigger, he had separate quarters for it.
Eventually, a building was built for it in Claremont.
There was a private librarian.
He died.
It continued on a foundation basis with a board.
It was dissolved for financial reasons.
Were there any heirs?
There were heirs.
I can't give you the details of that, but yes, there were heirs.
There must be paperwork filed out.
Oh, and undoubtedly.
Oh, of course.
But he died a long time ago.
The books were given to the Huntington Library.
Straight gift or sale?
It's more complicated than that.
Inevitably, it is.
Yes.
I'll let the Huntington talk about that specifically.
The person you want to talk to is Alan Judsy, J-U-T-C-I.
Now, and it wasn't a situation where it was foregone that it would go to the Huntington.
There were other negotiations with Claremont.
I mean, the major loser... It's still up and up, by the way.
I'm with this all the way.
The major loser in this situation, clearly, of course, was... The major loser was Claremont, because it had a wonderful shirt.
Claremont College, because it had a wonderful resource, an added resource.
To some extent, the library, you will use what I'm saying delicately, the librarian was very much in the 19th century.
The librarian was still in the 19th century in many ways.
There was a dial telephone.
Dial telephone.
There was no computer.
So one of the things that happens as this moves to the Huntington is very, very high-level bibliographic work.
Now, it's not that this was a secret institution.
I mean, people came from all over the world to work here.
It indeed was used.
But the level of utilization probably was not commensurate with what could have been the case and what will be the case now that the material will be online.
So in the long run, scholarship doesn't suffer.
I mean, the material, the really good material is still there.
The question is, what do you lose when an institution goes out of existence?
And there is a loss, and I'll talk about that if you want.
I've thought about writing on this.
When you have a small institution, you have a focal point.
No matter how good that collection is, within the Huntington, it becomes a small collection.
And when you have a separate small institution, it becomes a focal point for those people who are committed, not just to the Bacon Road Shakespeare, but to Bacon and to Baconian studies.
That book, that library was astounding.
You could pick up a book on...
Any book in that library, you'd open up, and it would say on the front, paste down end paper, see page so-and-so for Bacon reference.
Now, if it was a 17th century book, or a book about the 17th century, there was no surprise to you that there were references to Bacon.
Bacon's influence, of course, was so great that you would walk in that library and see books that you, on the surface, were unrelated to Bacon.
And you'd pick them up.
There would be the page reference, and you'd be making these connections that you never saw before.
That's the whole essence of a library.
Exactly.
So in that sense... That's what a library does.
Exactly, exactly.
What do they call them today?
They're not even being called libraries anymore.
You know what I'm saying?
Research, the new names that institutions are giving these centers or whatever.
But this is really what libraries... That's right.
And there is a real loss.
And the book that you would go in and have this epiphanous moment, that's probably been sold, that book.
very likely for one of two reasons.
Either the Huntington has it already, or it's a relatively common book that's accessible.
But there is a certain kind of a logical alchemy that goes on by the collection.
As far as I'm concerned, that's absolutely true, and that's a definite loss.
Now, with computerization and Boolean logic built into computers and all that,
Other things and cross-references are accessible more and more.
So it's not a straightforward cut-and-dry loss situation.
But I think there's a loss, and I think the kind of thing that you just described is very real.
People wandering the shelves is a...
It's not... The kinds of magic that can occur in browsing, the connections that can get made, the way new ideas come into your head by the juxtaposition of things that you're seeing is very real, I think.
And in that sense, I think there's a real loss when small libraries like this probes.
I wouldn't use you as the... I would just like to... What would be a contact for somebody to call as to how the decision came to be made to...
to dissolve this institution?
Who would I follow?
Well, I think you'd want to talk more with me and then more with Alan Jutsi as the first two steps.
Yeah.
That's really... This is not, you know, there's nothing negative here.
No, no.
I'd just like to know what kind of a thought process went on.
what factors came into play, and whether or not the kinds of issues you just articulated to me were ever considered.
John Niven, N-I-V-E-N, who was a retired emeritus professor at the Claremont Graduate School in Claremont, California, 91711,
Favorite target of Steven Blumberg, who's back in prison again.
I'm glad to hear he's back in prison.
What did he get back in prison for?
A violation of his parole.
He'll be out in seven months.
Take care of business, brother.
Oh, I need to take care of business.
No, no, it's only one thing I was going to talk over.
Um...
This is Charles Goldsmith continuing to talk about the Bacon Foundation.
Elizabeth Wrigley was the librarian for Wolf Conrad Ahrensberg, his private librarian, and then when the foundation started and when there was a separate building and so forth and so on, she continued.
She is still alive.
She's quite ill.
She's a good book woman.
She is an extraordinarily knowledgeable person about Francis Bacon.
She's a trained librarian.
And she was resistant to, for better and for worse, resistant to the 20th century in terms of trends of librarianship.
Extraordinarily knowledgeable person.
Very serious.
She lives in an L.A.
suburb, and I can get you the address, but I don't recall it.
She's quite, she's ill.
She has the faculties?
Yes and no.
More or less.
Did she ever write a memoir or a recollection?
No, and she'd be interesting to talk to.
Way in the place, in the sense of capital R, boldface, underlined.
And there were other people who worked there over the years, and I can tell you things about that.
This had some element of a social club to it.
Good sharing and good scotch.
Friday afternoon gatherings and so forth.
And I say that, I mean, you can say that with cynicism, and then you can also say that with profound envy, because anyone who knows anything about, say, English traditions or book people, book places, it's a book place.
It's a book place, and it did, I mean, quite specifically, they don't call them libraries, they call them book places, that can be anything.
And that's, uh...
I'm writing a catalogue, slowly, on Claremont, because I'm focusing a catalogue on books that are about printed in
written in, associated with, by printers from Claremont.
It's an idiosyncratic thing to do, probably a commercial and idiotic thing to do, but I'm doing it.
Dr. Rob Black, you might think it's a wonderful thing to do.
Yeah, but it's one of the things I've been working on for years.
I have a wall full of books in that area.
In any event, you might want to talk to Niven also, because he was one of the key people on the board.
He's at Claremont.
He is living in Claremont, emeritus professor.
and I'm coming out to L.A.
maybe this fall.
Well, give me a call, because I'll give you more details than we have time for it now.
Lloyd Colton is in writing a book.
Excuse me?
Yeah, my reputation.
Anyway, I'd be happy to talk more about that.
Okay.
Do you have a specific thing you want me to speak to?
No, I think you've got a good start.